# Phylogeny, ancestral ranges and reclassification of sand dollars

<h3 align="right">Hsin Lee, Kwen-Shen Lee, Chia-Hsin Hsu, Chen-Wei Lee, Ching-En Li, Jia-Kang Wang, Chien‑Chia Tseng, Wei-Jen Chen, Ching-Chang Horng, Colby T. Ford, Andreas Kroh, Omri Bronstein, Hayate Tanaka, Tatsuo Oji, Jih-Pai Lin, and Daniel Janies</h3>

## Abstract
Classification of the Class Echinoidea is under significant revision in light of emerging molecular phylogenetic evidence. In particular, the sister-group relationships within the superorder Luminacea (Echinoidea: Irregularia) have been considerably updated. However, the placement of many families remains largely unresolved due to a series of incongruent evidence obtained from morphological, paleontological, and genetic data for the majority of extant representatives. In this study, we investigated the phylogenetic relationships of 25 taxa, belonging to eleven luminacean families. We proposed three new superfamilies: Astriclypeoidea, Mellitoidea, and Taiwanasteroidea (including Dendrasteridae, Taiwanasteridae, Scutellidae, and Echinarachniidae), instead of the currently recognized superfamily Scutelloidea Gray, 1825. In light of the new data obtained from ten additional species, the historical biogeography reconstructed shows that the tropical western Pacific and eastern Indian Oceans are the cradle for early sand dollar diversification. Hothouse conditions during the late Cretaceous and early Paleogene were coupled with diversification events of major clades of sand dollars. We also demonstrate that Taiwan fauna can play a key role in terms of understanding the major Cenozoic migration and dispersal events in the evolutionary history of Luminacea.